High in this video we are going to continue looking at our representation of floats.
So the first thing we can do is look at the help if we want for follow up so we can use the help command.
And you can see that the float has a single constructor that takes some parameter x and it will try
to convert a string or number to a floating point number if possible.
So this means we can do something like float.
Then we can take an integer and we can make a float out of it.
As you can see we get 10.0 because we can also use a floating point number already.
So that will work.
It's kind of superfluid.
But we can do it.
We can also use strings that can be evaluated as numbers.
So let's say twelve point five.
That will come back as the float.
Twelve point five.
Now you remember we're dealing with fractions we could do something like 22 over 7.
Well that's not going to work here right.
We are going to get this value error.
It could not convert it if you really want to be able to do that.
You're going to have to first create a fraction and then cast it as a float.
So we can do it this way.
Right.
So we can import fractions fractions and actually let me do this from fractions in thought.
Fraction we're just going to call the fraction class itself.
We don't need the other ones.
So here we might say A equals fraction of twenty two over seven.
And now we can say flow out of a we can take a fraction and convert that to a float.
That's perfectly fine.
So the next thing I want to show point out very quickly is this whole problem that we have with the
internal representations being infinite and we can take a look at something like you know zero point
one.
Well if we print 0.1 it looks just fine.
So what's the problem.
That's 0.1.
Well the problem is that Python is kind of you know fooling us here with the display when we're printing
0.1.
It's kind of we are formatting it to a you know smaller number of digits you know or smaller precision
if you want to think of it that way.
But in fact behind the scenes that number is not 0.1.
And we can do something like this to show it.
So maybe we think well you know I'm not sure that 0.1 is exact.
What if I decide to show you know maybe 15 decimal points.
Well that's looks pretty good right.
Even with your 15 digits after the decimal point we still have a zero point one it looks like it is.
It is exact.
So let's push that out a little bit more.
And let's go to 25.
And now you see you can see that we do not have exactly zero point 1.
It's slightly off.
All right.
And of course now if we use something that can be represented exactly.
And remember that we looked at 0.1 to five.
Right.
And we saw that we can represent 0.1 to five as an exact value right.
Because what is one divided by eight is 0.1 to five.
So one eighth.
That's one over two to the power of three which is basically you know part of that expansion that representation
that we had using powers of 2.
So if we format the 0.1 to 5 and we go to 25 digits after the decimal point you'll see that it is exact.
So we have 0.1 to 5 and everything else after that are zeros.
So just something we have to watch out for.
And why do we have to watch out for that.
Well I'll give you a little preview of what we're going to look at in the next video.
Let's say we define age to be 0.1 plus 0.1 plus 0.1.
And then with the find be to be equal to 0.3 now we test the equality is equal to B and the answer to
that is no they're not equal to each other.
Why.
Well again let's just look at format of a.
At twenty five digits this is where we get and let's format be 25 digits after the decimal point.
And as you can see they're not exactly equal and that's because we have these approximate representations
for all floating point numbers even though they have an exact representation in base 10.
0.3 is exact in base 10 0.1 is exact in base 10.
There are however not exact when you use these two representations.
All right thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.